At the end of last video I mentioned that I want to make sure that we have some better output whenever
we run our little program.
Right now we are printing out all the different files and folders inside that simple array.
Let's just get better formatting.
There is one other issue I want to take care of however if I go back into my code editor inside my root
project directory I'm going to create a new folder inside of here called simply empty folder.
So I'm just creating this as a quick example if I go back over to my terminal and I run an L S you'll
see that on my machine Your machine might be configured differently but on my computer empty folder
gets printed out with a slightly different color which is assigned to me that this is a folder as opposed
to a normal file so as we start to improve the formatting here I not only want to make sure that we
display all these file names in a little bit better format.
I also want to try to color code the different things that we are logging.
So I want to make sure that I log out all the different folder names with one color in all the different
file names with another color so something a little bit more similar to how else responds on my machine.
I believe you're not doing this is going to be just a little bit challenging.
Let me tell you why.
If we consider our code right now we are calling Reid Dir.
That's going to take a look inside of the current working directory and give us back the file names
of all the files and folders inside of that directory.
Now here's the awkward thing that is an array of strings so we get just the name of the file.
Nothing else or the folder and nothing else.
The reason that this is kind of awkward is that we don't have any idea whatsoever inside of our program
right now whether each of these strings represents a file or a folder.
So if I do an end L S inside of here now I can see that I have a string that says empty folder and you
and I know that is a folder because we just created it and you and I know that everything else inside
of here is a file.
But our program doesn't know that.
The only thing that our program knows is that there are some things like some objects essentially inside
a current working directory with these names in our program has no idea if they are files or folders.
So that is going to be actually kind of a challenging thing to solve.
We're going to have to find some additional way using the F S module to somehow take a look at each
of these things and decide whether or not there are files or folders that you might immediately say
to me or say to yourself Steven this is insane.
Why don't we just check to see if each of these has an extension so you might think that you can just
use the presence of an extension to decide whether or not something is a file or a folder.
Well unfortunately that doesn't really work.
A hundred percent at a time.
A perfect example of why that doesn't work is actually the node command line tool itself.
If I run it which node that will print out where the node executable lives on my machine.
So you can see that it exists inside of this folder right here so the node program doesn't have an executable
or excuse me it doesn't have an extension on it.
No program is a file it is one single file but it doesn't have an extension so we cannot use the presence
of an extension or not a staunch extension to decide whether or not something is a file because we are
going to misidentify stuff like executable files.
So how are we going to actually do this.
Well let's go back over to the node standard library.
Here it is right here.
I've got the file system documentation up on the screen and I'm going to do a search for L stats like
so so we are looking for FSS dot l stats El stat is mentioned many times inside this file 10 times in
total.
So make sure that you find like this bullet point right here of El stat.
Well then click on that.
We'll take a look at the documentation.
This function is used to get some information about one single file or folder at a time so for our project
we're going to end up having to call El stats multiple different times with every single object that
we get back inside of that file names array we use El stat just like how we do the reader function.
We're going to call f s dot l stats we're going to pass in the name of the file or folder that we want
to take a look at and then a callback function that's going to be invoked once node has looked up some
details about that given file the callback just like reader is going to be invoked with the first argument
of error and a second argument of a stats object that thing right there is what you and I are really
interested in the stats object has some information about the given file or folder that we provided
the path to as the first arguments so this object right here we can use that to figure out whether or
not the given thing is a file or a folder and then after that we can console log its name with the appropriate
color attach.
Let's take a look more at the stats object and get a better idea of how it's going to tell us whether
something is a file or a folder.
So if I click on F. Scott stats it's gonna take me to a class definition.
So when we call l stat and we get back that stats object we get an instance of the F S stats class this
class has a ton of different properties on it.
And if you look at these different property names you can see that they all look really official and
fancy from the get go.
Fortunately we don't really have to interpret any of that information there.
If we scroll down we're going to see that these stats object that we get back from the El stat method
has some very clearly named methods on it.
One is is directory and another is is file so we can use these two methods too.
As you could probably guess really easily identify whether something is a file or a folder and then
do a console log with the appropriate color depending upon which these is true so that's it.
That's the idea we're gonna call El stat a whole bunch with every file we find.
We're gonna get back that stats object we're going to call either is file or is directory then use the
output of that to decide how to console log each file name.
All right so let's go back over to our editor.
We're gonna take a quick pause here before writing on any code so quick pause come back and start working
with L stat in just a moment.